Kamil Salakhiev: James.
Kamil Salakhiev: Hey, everyone.
Will Corcoran: I'll start just a minute or two.
Will Corcoran: How's everyone doing?
Will Corcoran: We've got… A number of things on the agenda. Let's see here… June,
Will Corcoran: I just kind of, like, started grabbing some of the items from the comments, and…
Will Corcoran: adding them to the… to the top of the agenda. I've got… this…
Will Corcoran: the lane view.
Will Corcoran: That you said is related to…
Will Corcoran: That's pure.
Will Corcoran: So… Yeah, I guess everyone, welcome to DQ Interop.
Will Corcoran: We are just kind of wrapping up.
Will Corcoran: the specs for DevNet Zero…
Will Corcoran: Making our way towards specs for DevNet 1, hoping to have a live DevNet
Will Corcoran: zero here in the near future. I think being… or sorry, June, we're gonna start off talking about LeanView,
Will Corcoran: Yeah, walk us through it. What do you got here?
Jun: So, can I share my screen?
Will Corcoran: Yeah, go for it.
Jun: So… Yeah, so… can you, see my screen as well?
Will Corcoran: Yes.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Can you zoom in a little bit?
Jun: Okay, okay, so… Alright.
Jun: Yeah, so I'm June from Ring Team, and I'm building a Rust client for upcoming PQ DevNets, and also I'm interested in building a tool, that can be helpful to devs and researchers.
Jun: In this PQ intro calls.
Jun: So, I, last few days, I spent some days, making some architecture and, how to integrate those things into a web app.
Jun: called LeanView, so… and also for the naming, I'm also welcome to any feedback about this naming, and, you can DM me when you have some great idea.
Jun: So, this tool is, so in this demo, I'd like to show the live app on the live network, which means I have to bootstrap,
Jun: DevNet, for this, app, so… There is a… So, yep.
Jun: Rim already supports, bootstrapping a DevNet from scratch, so, just running this kind of comment?
Jun: this will run a node with four valid features on it, and it continues getting consensus, with 3SM mini consensus mechanism.
Jun: So, there's lots of, things going on here, but I think they are well… going well, finalizing, justifying, etc.
Jun: So, on this,
Jun: node, there is an RP send point on this node, so this node can feed data to the web app. So, I'd like to also run a lean view app with this comment. So, here's the LeanView,
Jun: project. So, it's basically a simple full-stack web app, consists of backend and front-end. And you can see the repository. Backend is written in Golang, and the front-end is written in React and TypeScript. And I'm gonna skip some details implementation, just showing what is going on right now.
Jun: So…
Jun: all those backend and front-end is Dockerized, so, which means I can just use Docker Compass to run a full-stack app, and there's lots of things going on here, so,
Jun: one of the core components of backend is Indexer, which, continuously fetches, the data, every slot second. So, in this hour setting, it's, 4 seconds. So, currently, there is a…
Jun: Page, so in my local host.
Jun: Yup.
Jun: this one. So, the front end is mostly built by AI, so you might be familiar with this kind of UI. So, I can, the design can be also improved, but, let me just focus on this functionality, so…
Jun: The first part is more kind of live things. So, how does… how does the endpoint is, is working well or not? So, it includes some kind of, slot, the head slot information with the block number, with the block root.
Jun: And it might not be healthy if the endpoint is not returning well.
Jun: So, this kind of is a live thing, and the below thing is the table, so it's kind of a historical thing. So, the first part is inspired by the forecone, and the below part is inspired by any other blockchain explorer, like DORA or Etherscan.
Jun: So, one thing I'd like to note is that, there, are…
Jun: I'm aware of some additional features, that can be built upon this app. So, there's a database, indexer, and also some live, fetcher. So, if you have any,
Jun: idea or feature request, you can just share or raise your opinion on the chat, or you can also DM me about the features. And I'm also… this is just a very, very basic
Jun: dashboard, very, very basic explorer, but I'd like to add more features on my own, but I also need your help about the ideas in
Jun: What kind of…
Jun: things you want to see in this web app. So, yeah, that's it. I can, get some questions, if you have.
Jun: Yep.
Guillaume: Yeah, I was just going to ask,
Guillaume: If you can… if you can hear me, I'm not sure, oh, yes.
Jun: Yeah, I can hear you.
Guillaume: Yeah, I mean, what do… what do you need from us, to also add us in, in this thing? So that's my first question. I think you already, I mean, Mercy has already been working on this, but I didn't quite follow. Sorry, the second question is, what happens when you have, like, let's say,
Guillaume: 5,000 nodes on the… on the network. Maybe not 5,000, but 20,
Guillaume: 20 nodes, like, isn't that getting too… over… overwhelming? Like, the first part, where you only have 3 clients at the moment.
Jun: Yeah, so this is, so the first question was, the, the, what, what do I need for, you guys, right? So…
Guillaume: Yeah, that, and also, because I think I understand it's based on the HTTP request, can we just mock, like, give you a first interface and, you know, answer, we don't know yet, what will happen, if that, if that occurs?
Jun: Yeah, so I think this visualizing things can handle some crazy scenarios, because we might face some scenarios on that. So, I'm gonna add some features that can be also seen in any other blockchain, any other explorer, but
Jun: I guess there are some features, specialized for this PQ DevNet.
Jun: So, we don't have signature right now, but, at the PQ.1, we will have signature, and at the PQ.net 2, we will have aggregates, ends going on and on. So, I guess, I can think of those features, but, if you have any ideas, just, yeah, raise any opinions to me that I can add on.
Jun: These features.
Jun: Does that answer your question?
Guillaume: Yeah, no, I just mean, like, you know, I just want to see Zim added to that row, so my question is just, like, can we just craft something very quickly so that at least we can be in there and see how far off we are from,
Guillaume: Being fully functional in your, in the view.
Jun: Yeah, so, it's… if you're familiar with, if PandaOps config, it's just like this one. So,
Jun: just, I need one endpoint or several endpoints, that run zine node, which is, also compatible, of the RPC structures and response.
Jun: So, yeah, I can just add these endpoints.
Guillaume: Right, so that's my question. Like, we… currently, we just opened an issue to discuss how we would implement this. My question is.
Jun: If we…
Guillaume: create the… the endpoints, right, the HTTP endpoints.
Guillaume: But they say, you know, like, they return an empty JSON payload.
Guillaume: what should we start with, basically? What should we… what should we provide that's not going to take the whole thing down and, you know.
Guillaume: We're not immediately ready, clearly, but,
Guillaume: We're going to build up… we'll build it up over time, we just want to… to see if… what happens if, you know, we return, like, an empty result.
Jun: Hmm… Alright, so if I understand your question correctly,
Jun: So, your question is about, what if the OneNote returned, empty response on the request, right?
Guillaume: Sure. Yeah.
Jun: Yeah, so in that case, I guess, this explorer will determine that endpoint unhealthy. So,
Jun: Yeah, that's… that's the logic.
Jun: And so, and also, could you repeat the second question? I don't remember.
Guillaume: Yeah, sure. The… like, you have cards for every… every node, and…
Jun: Yeah, yeah.
Guillaume: You only have 3, so it's fine, but what when you have 20?
Jun: So, there's a… orchi up?
Jun: This is the… is also built by, if Panda Ops. It's about
Jun: fetching about, I don't know, 20 nodes, I guess?
Jun: And they are using SATU as a data source, so it is quite optimized, but we don't have that kind of data source, right? So, I guess that needs more optimization, and also, I…
Jun: added all the components, it's just one page, but I'm planning to separate this monitoring page in another page so that this request can not be too burdened to any other clients.
Jun: So, yeah, the optimization is not yet, well done in this project, but it should be.
Guillaume: Yeah, I mean, that's fine, you know, you're just starting a block explorer from scratch, it's a lot of work. All I'm saying is, yeah, I just want to see how we could make it more readable, that's all.
Jun: Yep, thanks.
Jun: Mercy?
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Yeah, I wanted to ask, the three endpoints you pointed out.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: For people, Devnazero, is it just the three endpoints that we need, or are we going to expand
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: On that also.
Jun: Yeah, so,
Jun: So, so I, I put it 3 endpoints, including block, block header, and versions, but I guess, fetching a state will also be needed, I guess, because, that's what, that's what Explorer has.
Jun: Yeah, I guess those four endpoints is enough for this phase, and if we have another feature request, we can add a new endpoint that can serve that data.
Mercy Boma Naps-Nkari: Okay.
Gajinder Singh: This looks great, but Joan, if we can add the fort moon kind of a thing, I think we'll be needing that, because…
Gajinder Singh: If there are forks in the network, my question is, how will you figure it out over here?
Jun: Yeah, that's a great question. So, ZATU has, Amex events on the forkare work thing, so that's what this 4K, works.
Jun: by, receiving the data from SAT2. So, currently, those… there is no,
Jun: UI for the handling those reorgs or fork, but that should definitely be in the dashboard. So, my… my nive thinking is about just,
Jun: batching those endpoints and compare the, block header or something to determine the forks. So, I have to think of more, algorithm about this, fork things, because 3SF is another consensus, that
Jun: I have to figure it out.
Gajinder Singh: you might not need to figure it out, I think maybe just figuring out what the head of everyone is, because everyone will give you a head according to TSF.
Gajinder Singh: Yep. So you might not need 3SF in the…
Gajinder Singh: In this particular tool as such.
Gajinder Singh: Yep, I understand.
Gajinder Singh: So, we need these three APIs, I mean, even if, for example, there is… the version is not there, and what is version returning?
Jun: Like this one.
Gajinder Singh: Okay.
Gajinder Singh: So, I mean, I don't see a big,
Gajinder Singh: You know, issue in just adding blocks and headers, or states for that matter.
Jun: As such, I mean.
Gajinder Singh: We should be able to handle it.
Gajinder Singh: In that sense, We should be able to come around on this.
Jun: Yes.
Jun: Could you repeat the last sentence?
Gajinder Singh: I said, yeah, as such, Zoom should be able to come around on this and implement
Gajinder Singh: Because we don't, see… Much, basically, you know.
Jun: I can share some clean document about the definition of the endpoints that I'm using right now, but that can help for implementing the RPC, yeah. I can send, in the Zoom Telegram chat, maybe tomorrow or after this call.
Gajinder Singh: Yep, I think that would be helpful for the team, for sure.
Jun: Yep.
Will Corcoran: Excellent. Thanks, Jen.
Jun: Okay, so, I think, if you have any questions, you can raise, you can DM me, and yeah, that's it. I can stop my screen sharing right now.
Will Corcoran: Real quick, so… You're also working on forking Dora?
Jun: No, it's, as Fork in DORA might, have a lot of code change, I guess, because, there's, there's a totally different, consensus.
Jun: using in those chains. So, actually, the app, what I showed, right before, is just,
Jun: Act as just a… Role of Dora right now.
Will Corcoran: Makes sense. Great.
Will Corcoran: The next item that I put on the agenda, Guillaume,
Will Corcoran: if you… I know that you opened, an issue with DevOps, and I think that they're, like, spinning up a…
Will Corcoran: an instance of Grafana for this group.
Will Corcoran: I don't know if there's any, like, context or update you could provide on that.
Guillaume: There's a very short update, so yes, the instance exists. We even have, excuse me, we have a Victoria Metrics DP intake, which is the same thing as Prometheus. I mean, they should speak the same protocol, at least that's what I've been told.
Guillaume: So that's done. I just need to test it and figure out if there are some issues, so I am yet to do this, but, yeah, you will have it by tomorrow at the latest. Well, okay. Unless there's a bug, you will have it by tomorrow at the latest.
Will Corcoran: Perfect, I'm good.
Will Corcoran: Next item… I'll drop in the chat… Tomah…
Will Corcoran: You wanted to, sort of, provide an update on the Lean SSC?
Will Corcoran: Your audio might not be working if you're speaking.
Thomas Coratger: Yes.
Will Corcoran: Oh, we're good.
Thomas Coratger: This is good.
Will Corcoran: Yep.
Thomas Coratger: Yep. So, I… with Felipe, we started to work a bit on some lean SSE things.
Thomas Coratger: Why? Because, for the SSD, we had, like, conflicts of types, and we had, like, only…
Thomas Coratger: kind of hold the implementation, not maintain anymore one in Python by the…
Thomas Coratger: By one of… whole team of the TVM Foundation, and one… another by an external contributor, Remackable.
Thomas Coratger: also not… not maintained anymore, and we wanted, as discussed during the last lean consensus call, to,
Thomas Coratger: to make things easier to do in Python using strong typing, pitonic stuff, pedantic, and all of the good principles of modern Python, so…
Thomas Coratger: We started to work on that, this is almost finished.
Thomas Coratger: And we are currently reviewing this. I will just share briefly my screen, just to show you, like, a brief view of what it is.
Thomas Coratger: So… Basically, in the… Because of this.
Thomas Coratger: In…
Thomas Coratger: in the types, in the type systems that I have there, we have defined all of the… all of the types required to do the SSE, so Boolean types, or UINTs. This is maybe the… the simplest to… to understand.
Thomas Coratger: And so we have defined that with everything clear, trying to use pedantic as much as possible, trying to use Clear method, modern Python. This is under review, and we have open sources, so we'll try to improve it with time.
Thomas Coratger: And we have tried to implement also the SAZ in a very simple way.
Thomas Coratger: Basically, the most important things are in this folder, SSE, and this is currently under review by Felipe, who will provide some new peers and some new insight into this.
Thomas Coratger: But yeah, basically the goal was to renew a bit the ecosystem, because, the last thing that we had was remerkalized, so…
Thomas Coratger: this one, and it was only maintained last year, so we wanted something a bit new and more adapted to the link concept, so we just started this small effort.
Thomas Coratger: I worked on this a bit this weekend and a bit yesterday. That is almost finished, and yeah, Felipe is currently reviewing that.
Thomas Coratger: I will then post that into the global lean consensus group that we have to see if we have external contributors who wants to contribute, or to share some Python tricks, or… yeah.
Thomas Coratger: This is my point.
Will Corcoran: There was a question in the chat from Gene. Do we need to use SHA-256 for hashing and SSZ Merkalization?
Thomas Coratger: Yeah, for now, this is what we use, yeah.
Thomas Coratger: Yeah.
Will Corcoran: Excellent. Thanks, Tom.
Will Corcoran: You wanted to provide an update, I'll drop in the chat.
Will Corcoran: the Quadrivium client update.
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, kayak.
Will Corcoran: I like it. Yes.
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, I can really quick, just explain what it is. So, yeah, we also just open-sourced our, DevNet client. It's, still lacks some features, but we are working hard to introduce them.
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, overall, it's, yeah,
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, DevNet client, written in C++, yeah, we use C++2P. I think, yeah, we resume the user as P2P, so we'll kind of have it.
Kamil Salakhiev: Hopefully, yeah, we'll have some diversity there, yeah, once our client is fully implemented. But yeah, overall, we have block production ready,
Kamil Salakhiev: Briefly short, yeah. So basically, here we have, like, one node produces blocks, and the next node is basically just synchronizes it. In theory, yeah, we should,
Kamil Salakhiev: Give it a try, and maybe, yeah, conduct some interop, because, yeah, we have the gossip subtopics implemented for the block announcements, so…
Kamil Salakhiev: But yeah, working hard on introducing 3SF and STF there. Yeah, also, I think Galamel was asking, like, about the Docker, last time, so yeah, it's not there yet, but yeah, it is also…
Kamil Salakhiev: work in progress at the moment. So, yeah, Aro just wants to give some…
Kamil Salakhiev: The update on this client. Yeah, thanks.
Will Corcoran: Awesome. Thanks, Camille.
Will Corcoran: Oh, it's great to see that coming together so quickly. And it'll be nice to…
Will Corcoran: Have that ready to go for the interrupt.
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, most of pieces, actually, they were not even implemented. Well, they were either ready already, or we just reused them. So, for example, SSG, we just took, from off-chain Labs, they had C++ implementation, although they were not supporting this for more than a year, so, yeah, we might actually face some…
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, compatibility challenges there, but…
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, that's what we need to figure out with Interop.
Kamil Salakhiev: But yeah.
Will Corcoran: Julene Alright.
Kamil Salakhiev: If someone has a better name, as John said, yeah, we all say that.
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, ready to accept it, consider it.
Will Corcoran: I think… well, first of all, congrats, everyone, on a really successful, lean consensus call last Friday. Going into the call, we were having some conversations about the one-pager that I just dropped into the chat, where this is…
Will Corcoran: Sort of where we're trying to summarize everything that's in the, PQ DevNet spec 0.
Will Corcoran: or zero spec. And this is… sort of follows a design pattern that
Will Corcoran: is used in the, you know, primary ACD, PandaOps, PM repo world, and I think that it would be great if we could sort of start to, consolidate all of the
Will Corcoran: you know, update that with all of the functionality and spec PRs, and spec test versions that we're planning to include into DevNet Zero. I think
Will Corcoran: Getting the first one.
Will Corcoran: you know, sort of solidified, I'm happy to take the lead on it if people want to just direct me to,
Will Corcoran: you know, all of the PRs and spec sections that are going to be included in the DevNet. Updating it moving forward should be, you know, relatively simple, just sort of tracking the incremental improvements.
Will Corcoran: But I do think that if we go too far without capturing everything here, we'll end up regretting it, and it's gonna be more work in the future. So our future selves will thank us if we, take some time to either, like, talk through that right now, we can
Will Corcoran: you know, I don't know the best way that we want to go about doing this. People can just submit PRs to update that,
Will Corcoran: That markdown that's already been created.
Will Corcoran: I don't know.
Will Corcoran: Anyone from the client teams or active spec riders have any
Will Corcoran: Thoughts on how to advance this?
Will Corcoran: Catherineer, you're awfully quiet.
Will Corcoran: I'm gonna call on you.
Gajinder Singh: Yeah.
Gajinder Singh: So, but what is… what is needed from us?
Will Corcoran: Really, I think it's just a matter of getting links to all of the pertinent information
Will Corcoran: Normally these DevNet 1, you know, single sheets cover all of the,
Will Corcoran: it'll be a link to the current release of the spec, like, say, the consensus spec release. I don't think that we have releases bundled up yet.
Will Corcoran: quite yet, so it'll just be links to the individual subspec sections. And then this is where we can start to track any active PRs. You know, normally it's EIPs and PRs, and
Will Corcoran: you know, trying to get everything onto a single sheet so that you know what's included in that, DevNet.
Will Corcoran: And then that's also where you'll track the, you know, sort of have the test scenarios that you want to include in the DevNet.
Will Corcoran: And ultimately, you know.
Will Corcoran: Document the, you know, the interoperability of all the clients, and if they're passing those tests successfully.
Gajinder Singh: Right, right. So yes, I think this document makes quite a lot of sense with that.
Gajinder Singh: Goal in mind, because this is, like, you know, anyone can come over here, and it would be a starting point.
Gajinder Singh: To dig into what, is happening on test, or spec, or…
Gajinder Singh: Any of the clients, clients that are participating in it?
Gajinder Singh: So, yes, we'll be able to sort of link our branches and PRs through it.
Gajinder Singh: As well as, the spec,
Gajinder Singh: spec as well, and maybe also detail… I'll write basically a bit of detail of,
Gajinder Singh: What is, what is the functionality… functionality that we are covering? That we already added in the…
Gajinder Singh: added in the lean specs repo, but I guess we can extract Auto from there and put it over here, or…
Gajinder Singh: Both the places can have it.
Will Corcoran: Alright, perfect.
Will Corcoran: Yeah, it's not the… not the top priority. Something I'm more than happy to track. I think it's just…
Will Corcoran: wanting people to, like, have context on it before I start, reaching out, and,
Will Corcoran: Trying to collect all the pertinent information, but…
Will Corcoran: I can take this to the next level.
Gajinder Singh: It will increase… it will definitely increasingly become quite important, because as we sort of…
Gajinder Singh: get more and more towards interop, then all these things will sort of…
Gajinder Singh: Be very pertinent to figure out what is going on.
Will Corcoran: Yeah, yeah, and I'm happy to, like, update it week in and week out, so it… once it gets going.
Will Corcoran: It'll be a nice, kind of, central hub for these calls and other things.
Will Corcoran: Okay. Any… I guess… Last week, you know, we had sort of…
Will Corcoran: felt like was a completion of DevNet Zero spec.
Will Corcoran: Can someone provide an update on the status of…
Will Corcoran: I don't know, I feel like maybe we're working towards a DevNet 1 spec and launching DevNet 0.
Gajinder Singh: Yeah, so I can sort of give the status with regard to what's happening in Zoom, as well as what is happening in the Genesis generation. But, I think Phil, I think PK,
Gajinder Singh: So sort of basically, put together a Genesis generator that would churn out the files.
Gajinder Singh: that we need, he would… although we don't need Genesis, SSD,
Gajinder Singh: But it would still generate it so that clients can verify, or clients can directly read that Genesis SSD and sort of have less of a cross-client issue.
Gajinder Singh: And if there is an issue, that will pop up quite easily. So, so that part is ready. Zeeam, as such, is…
Gajinder Singh: quite near to definite,
Gajinder Singh: zero spec implementation. We are done with FolkChoice, and some of the changes that was… that were… that were introduced in the container and straight transition function that I just need to port back, and
Gajinder Singh: So hopefully, by end of this week, we will be ready, and we'll be ready to sort of, consume, PK's Genesis file.
Gajinder Singh: and, sort of start our local, and in, us, in, process or local DevNet with, our own client, and then if, then when Reem is ready with it.
Gajinder Singh: then we can, interrupt, try interop on the local machine itself. But I think before we try and interrupt, we would basically need some of,
Gajinder Singh: Some of the test cases, we need to pass some of the test cases, because…
Gajinder Singh: A lot of interop issues would be… you know,
Gajinder Singh: pre-handled that way, and we would probably have a smooth interrupt. We decided that
Gajinder Singh: I think in this week's call, week's call in Zoom,
Gajinder Singh: PK, and we have to basically take a call, whether we want Kurtosis, kurtosis as a tool, because Kurtosis right now has a lot of other things. It spins up execution clients, and
Gajinder Singh: So, so there is a whole lot of stuff, and there is a whole lot of tooling that
Gajinder Singh: Or a whole load of functionality code that we don't need.
Gajinder Singh: And, we basically… it will be better to start as an independent package.
Gajinder Singh: But, I don't even think that we sort of need that. We have a quite simplistic way of
Gajinder Singh: starting up the clients, and that Genesis generation is also not really a big deal, so…
Gajinder Singh: So I think… Maybe we can have a small shell tool that can spin up clients.
Gajinder Singh: at least to begin with, in the meantime, getting cotuses ready. So, getting katosis ready will take 2 to 3 weeks in the least.
Gajinder Singh: And we don't want it to sort of,
Gajinder Singh: Delay us, and delay our interop, so we'll figure out a way to interrupt without ketosis, but in the meantime.
Gajinder Singh: we'll get ketosis ready so that, we can finally hop onto Katrosis for that matter.
Gajinder Singh: Yajin.
Jun: Yeah, so maybe Rim can also,
Jun: provide some updates on it. So, O and Cassandra and me, take some… several calls, about the lean chain spec.
Jun: So, I think, we three are all, quite aligned, on the same page. So, in the RIM side, we already implemented most of the… updated the specs. So, what I…
Jun: what I have showed… shown on the very first part of this call is running the network with the latest spec. So, I guess, in… in the RIM side, the spec… spec… implementing spec is almost done, but one of the concerns is the optimization. So, it's like memory optimization, or
Jun: any other DB integration, so we are, working on this, so I guess, we can finish this in, in early next week? I don't know, but, that can be feasible.
Jun: And also, I'm… I agree with Kazinder's last sentences that, as Curtis says.
Jun: needs some time to be prepared. We need some, method to run this network in locomotion, so I guess Docker Compose can be a great, tool for running,
Jun: separate, node in one machine, so…
Jun: Yeah, so, I guess, yep.
Gajinder Singh: Just… just right over here, so the kind of tool that I was talking was, definitely, we'll use Docker images, but I had something like a Load Start Quick Start when I was working for Load Start, where you can basically, you know, use the tool to spin up,
Gajinder Singh: a dev network, and, through, through basically, you know.
Gajinder Singh: it will generate the Genesis and then start the network. So we have that kind of a shell tool, and I think we can adopt that over here to spin up the nodes. But yes, definitely spin up all the nodes in Docker so that
Gajinder Singh: It is an easy way to get the network going for anyone who wants to start it.
Jun: Yeah, so I'd like to suggest to, make a schedule of that kind of local interrupt things using the image from each team.
Jun: As, if we are ready. So, I think,
Jun: Could you have any idea of this timeline before this, the full interop?
Gajinder Singh: I think that is… this is something that we should start trying next week.
Gajinder Singh: So, I mean, I'm hoping that we'll be able to start,
Gajinder Singh: at least figuring out the interop between Reem and Zayn next week. That is…
Gajinder Singh: That is my hope and aim.
Jun: Yeah, so, and I also noticed that, we both have some CLI tools to generate ENR, to be more specific, the CCP key for the network. That means we can just feed the boot, the ENR addresses as the boot nodes.
Jun: for each node that can also be handled in some script in a Docker compose.
Gajinder Singh: So that… that tool is… that, data will be available through, PK's generator, so we don't have to worry.
Jun: Good morning.
Gajinder Singh: So, Piki… so I'll share, I think… is Piki on the call? I'm not sure.
Will Corcoran: I don't believe so.
Gajinder Singh: Yeah, so basically, he…
Gajinder Singh: he did some work, and he provided some output to where, you know, we had a discussion on this on Zoom call last Friday, and we basically
Gajinder Singh: Figured this out, that, okay, you know, this is the minimum files, or the structure that we need.
Gajinder Singh: And which also included, secret keys, for the nodes, for the node, P2P, as well as, the ENR,
Gajinder Singh: generation and assignment. So… so all that thing should be worked out. What we just need to do is basically
Gajinder Singh: have a shell tool that generates it, and then is able to start Zoom or Ream Nord.
Gajinder Singh: To read, those config files, and then basically the interop happens.
Jun: Alright, so, after.
Gajinder Singh: We can also add lean weight.
Gajinder Singh: We can also add LeanView to APR, that would be pretty interesting.
Jun: Yeah, for sure. So, if you have some… oh, yeah, S, Camel?
Jun: You can go…
Kamil Salakhiev: No, I just wanted to add that, yeah, how we plan to approach spinning up a network is, basically, from day one, we want to be kind of shadow compatible. If you know, this is kind of the framework that allows to replace some system calls and basically have
Kamil Salakhiev: discrete event simulation for the networking. The disadvantage of that is that it's not very convenient to use it together with Grafana.
Kamil Salakhiev: As simulation kind of happens faster than in real time. Basically, we can simulate, basically, hours of simulation in several minutes.
Kamil Salakhiev: Well, it depends on the complexity and number of EIPers in the network, but yeah, that just could be one approach to do this. There are some restrictions, like, for example, to be compatible with Shadow, it doesn't support IPv6 addresses, and
Kamil Salakhiev: some other restrictions, I believe, but…
Kamil Salakhiev: Yeah, yeah, it would be interesting once we have all clients ready just to spin up.
Kamil Salakhiev: the network using shadow, because we can also kind of restrict, for example, the bandwidth between nodes, set latency between them, all of that stuff. So, yeah, if needed, yeah, we have some experience working with that, so yeah, we can help with this.
Kamil Salakhiev: That's probably a kind of alternative to kurtosis, rather. Well, not…
Kamil Salakhiev: No, the other way around. It's not like the direct…
Kamil Salakhiev: alternative to Curtosis, but, yeah, it could be convenient to just spin up a network, yeah.
Gajinder Singh: Yeah, I think that would be awesome to have, where basically you can control the bandwidth, or the resource allocation to the nodes, and
Gajinder Singh: But that is also possible in Kubernetes, but yeah, I think that is…
Gajinder Singh: All another tool to handle and…
Gajinder Singh: We… I have good experience with that, but yes, things can be a little bit painful in that.
Gajinder Singh: So yeah, I think for the next week, we can just try to…
Gajinder Singh: do these things. Try to drive on an interop using very basic or rudimentary things.
Gajinder Singh: And then, as we gradually mature, we'll figure out what other tooling, we can use
Gajinder Singh: To basically simulate the scenarios that we want.
Gajinder Singh: Including what Camel suggested.
Will Corcoran: Sounds good.
Will Corcoran: Yeah, seems like we're kind of getting through some of these.
Will Corcoran: Early growing pains, and… Hitting our stride.
Will Corcoran: Are there any other… Topics that people would like to cover, anywhere you're blocked, need a review.
Will Corcoran: Something that benefits from us all being Together.
Jun: Just one question to Cassander about our spec. So, currently, one PR is open right now, and can we just assume that this PR will be merged and also, apply to our codebase right now?
Gajinder Singh: The fork choice one.
Jun: Yes.
Gajinder Singh: Yes, yes. So, I just basically, you know, I just want to reconfirm everything.
Gajinder Singh: And, try to see that, that everything is in order in the PR. As such, as such, conceptually, the PR is…
Gajinder Singh: good.
Gajinder Singh: I just want to recheck all the small details and, get the syntax properly done.
Gajinder Singh: And as well as basically getting it implemented, and so in Zoom, we have already implemented it, so basically a confirmation.
Gajinder Singh: I was also waiting for a confirmation, in implementation that,
Gajinder Singh: whatever is proposed is all good. So there are a few changes that I mentioned in the…
Gajinder Singh: In our channel that we are coordinating for the specs.
Gajinder Singh: that there are a few minor changes that I would like to introduce, and basically we'll discuss it over the next 2-3 days, but as such.
Gajinder Singh: It is sort of an abstraction and does not really change
Gajinder Singh: the technical content of the PR.
Jun: Okay, so I think, that PR can be merged, I don't know, the Friday or something, so… so that we can, see in the master branch about the… the latest spec of the
Jun: He could have not chained.
Gajinder Singh: Yes, let's try to aim it March by Friday here.
Will Corcoran: Fantastic.
Will Corcoran: Anyone else?
Will Corcoran: See some new faces?
Will Corcoran: Welcome. Excited to see the call, sort of growing in intention.
Will Corcoran: Yeah, I think we're… Let's dirt.
Will Corcoran: Turn some heads here soon.
Will Corcoran: Alright.
Will Corcoran: I will see you guys online.
Will Corcoran: Have a good day.
Shariq Naiyer: Have a good one, guys.
Thomas Coratger: Nice.
Justin Drake: Thanks for having a good.